                            Steven Douglas Ford
                             4032 Chester Drive
                             Glenview, IL 60025
                               (847) 291-8254

                            sford@geeky-boy.com

EXPERIENCE:

Nineteen years of professional experience in all phases of product
development, from initial concept and requirements, through architecture,
design and development, to introduction in the field.

Experience with many languages, especially C, C++, PERL5, AWK, PL/M,
PASCAL, and Assembler (68020, 8086). Operating systems programmed for: UNIX
(kernel and user), MS Windows, VRTX, MTOS, and iRMX, plus targets with no
formal operating system. Comfortable with source-level and assembly-level
debuggers, emulators, and logic analyzers. Strong debugging/troubleshooting
skills.

Familiar with hardware; can design simple circuits and work closely with
hardware engineers.

October 1997-present Teradyne Incorporated, Deerfield, IL

Software Engineer

Telephone line test equipment for phone company central offices. Software
written in C and C++ for UNIX host (Sun/Solaris). Worked on TSC (UNIX-based
system controller).

   * Worked with team of two others to define new Internet test controller.
     Refined high-level requirements, mapped out architecture and
     high-level design. Currently in detailed-design phase. Code will use
     Apache, JRUN, JSP, Java servlets, and Corba on Sun Solaris.
   * Tracked down Solaris kernel panic that happened rarely and only in the
     field. Involved using ADB to read kernel dumps, writing analysis tools
     in Perl5 to reduce data, and instrumenting a STREAMS module. (It was a
     race condition where a packet was received on a stream that was in the
     process of closing.)
   * Led team of UNIX and embedded engineers to define new XDR-based
     protocol between TSC and new measurement unit. Worked with another
     engineer in implementation of communication infrastructure for TSC in
     C++. Involved tracking down subtle incompatibilities between Sun and
     an embedded TCP implementations (FIN bit processing, aggressive
     re-transmission, and window advertisements).
   * Wrote fault-tolerant software download utility (updates software in
     measurement unit). Unreliability in embedded system required careful
     sequencing and re-trying to maximize chances for successful download.
   * Adapted existing "crunch" library to new generation measurement unit.
     Involved significant reverse-engineering of legacy code, analysis of
     changes to minimize risk, and re-testing.
   * Led team of hardware and embedded engineers to determine root causes
     for inaccurate measurement results. Developed workarounds in TSC to
     correct for the worst of the inaccuracies.

February 1996-present Future Source Incorporated, Lombard, IL

Software Engineer

Real-time financial market data acquisition and distribution to traders,
primarily commodities futures.

   * Worked with another engineer to create new web site,
     http://www.futuresource.com. Designed and implemented the account
     creation and maintenance CGI scripts. Designed and implemented product
     pricing database and selection scripts for credit card purchases.
     Designed and implemented "Talk", a web-based conferencing system.
     Wrote user FAQs and internal design documentation. All software
     written in Perl5 (object-oriented with inheritance) and SHTML for
     Apache server on FreeBSD.
   * Re-engineered, coded, and tested front-end to LME (London Metals
     Exchange) data feed. Basic functions include parsing of LME messages,
     selection and reformatting of messages into common FutureSource
     internal format, and transmission of message into database system.
     Also added significant buffering, error detection and logging, and
     data compression features. Software is spread across 3 cooperating
     microprocessors, two of them embedded with no operating system, one
     running MS-DOS. Required significant reverse-engineering of existing
     software and data feed. Software 100% C.
   * Fixed numerous bugs to existing networked product client and server,
     mostly in the proprietary protocol layered on IPX. Most software
     written in object-oriented C++ for Windows 3.1 and 95.

June 1994-February 1996 Computer Associates, Naperville, IL (formerly
"Legent", "Lachman")

PMTS (Principal Member of Technical Staff)

STREAMware TCP/IP networking package ("Lachman TCP") for UNIX. Includes
kernel-level STREAMS modules/drivers plus user-level commands. Software
100% C.

   * Member of customer support team for OEM customers (SCO, AT&T, Novell),
     fixing kernel-level bugs. Involved analysis of crash dumps from the
     field. Example: diagnosed and repaired multiprocessor timing window in
     IP when bringing down a network interface (improper locking and event
     handling).

SNX - networking package for Microtec's VRTXsa real-time operating system,
based on STREAMware TCP/IP and STREAMware Kernel (SwK).

   * Lead engineer for SNX enhancement project. Negotiated requirements and
     schedules. Assigned work to self and 3 other engineers. Monitored
     progress and reported to Microtec.
   * Performed extensive maintenance of existing SNX code, particularly in
     the SwK Kernel. Included design and implementation of an enhanced
     STREAMS flow control mechanism to make SwK more deterministic by
     adding a configurable weighted byte count on STREAMS messages, queues,
     and priority bands to cause early flow control with small messages.
   * Fixed problems in the TCP protocol module, the socket interface and
     various STREAMS device drivers. Example: diagnosed undocumented
     limitation of LANCE Ethernet chip where an outgoing packet consisting
     of many small buffers can starve the LANCE output shift register,
     resulting in a corrupted transmit packet. Changed driver to combine
     small buffers as needed.

1983-June 1994 Siemens Medical Systems, Hoffman Estates, IL

Served as local expert on C, VRTX32, UNIX, and real-time software in
general. Steadily improved departmental productivity and quality by
optimizing the development process, increasing automation and writing
tools. Engineering management relied on my technical judgment in preparing
schedules, interviewing new hires, and making product proposals.

1991-1994: Project CE16 - Staff Engineer

CE16 is a medical X-ray imaging system for general angiography which was
co-developed by engineering departments in the U.S. and Germany. The U.S.
part is based on 68020 CPU, VRTX32 real-time O.S., and in-house designed
hardware (evolution of HICOR hardware; see below). Software 95% C, 5%
assembler.

   * Worked on team of 4 engineering, 4 marketing, and 3 management people
     to define requirements and high-level specifications for CE16. Worked
     with marketing and engineering management in Germany and the U.S. to
     minimize technical complexity while still meeting all customer
     requirements.
   * Led a 5-engineer team to define high-level software architecture for
     CE16. Used strong object orientation. Worked with hardware team to
     define hardware architecture and hardware/software divisions. Worked
     with software management to divide work among 15 programmers according
     to their strengths and desires. Made time estimates.
   * Designed, coded, and tested the real-time side of a distributed
     database subsystem. Involved exchanging messages with a UNIX host via
     SCSI link to access SYBASE records (UNIX software written in Germany).
     Due to slow SYBASE performance, required extensive caching of data on
     real-time side. Subsystem supports multiple asynchronous tasks reading
     and writing data with record locking to synchronize tasks. Used
     hashing to match arbitrary database keys to cached record.

1987-1991: Project HICOR - Principal Software Engineer

HICOR is a medical X-ray imaging system for cardiac angiography based on
68020 CPU, VRTX32 O.S., and in-house designed hardware. Software 95% C, 5%
assembler.

   * Led software architecture definition effort. Helped define schedules.
   * Designed, coded, and tested serial communications package. Featured
     multiple serial lines, multiple virtual connections on each serial
     line, flow control, and automatic error detection and retransmission.
   * Designed, coded, and tested image review subsystem. Consisted of 3
     cooperating real-time tasks with differing time constraints
     controlling the image processing and display hardware.

1983-1987: Project Digitron - Senior Software Engineer

Medical X-ray imaging system for general and cardiac angiography based on
80386 CPU, Intel iRMX O.S., and proprietary hardware. Software 95% PL/M, 5%
assembler. 25 staff-years total project effort.

   * Designed, coded, and tested interrupt-based I/O driver. Involved
     designing and building 5-chip test circuit to simulate data source.
   * Found little-known glitch in Intel 8259 interrupt controller and
     devised hardware/software workaround.
   * Designed, coded, and tested a proprietary Ethernet-based
     communications protocol and file server to transfer medical images and
     program files between Digitrons and VAXes. Involved finding and
     developing fix for a hardware bug on the Ethernet controller board.

1982-1983 Northern Telecom, Morton Grove, IL

Software Engineer

   * Designed, coded, and tested communications package implementing IBM's
     BISYNC protocol. Assisted in development of HDLC protocol. 100% Z-80
     assembler.

1980-1982 Fisher Controls, Marshalltown, IA

Software Engineer

   * Designed, coded, and tested various programs for real-time process
     control. Used Pascal, SL/1 (Fisher's internal version of PL/M), and
     assembler.

EDUCATION:

   * 5/80 - Bachelor of Science, Iowa State University GPA 3.5/4.0

     Subject: Computer Engineering
